My fellow Americans: Tonight, I want to speak with you about our nation’s unprecedented response to the coronavirus outbreak that started in China and is now spreading throughout the world.

Today, the World Health Organization officially announced that this is a global pandemic.

We have been in frequent contact with our allies, and we are marshalling the full power of the federal government and the private sector to protect the American people.

This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history.  I am confident that by counting and continuing to take these tough measures, we will significantly reduce the threat to our citizens, and we will ultimately and expeditiously defeat this virus.

From the beginning of time, nations and people have faced unforeseen challenges, including large-scale and very dangerous health threats.  This is the way it always was and always will be.  It only matters how you respond, and we are responding with great speed and professionalism.

Our team is the best anywhere in the world.  At the very start of the outbreak, we instituted sweeping travel restrictions on China and put in place the first federally mandated quarantine in over 50 years.  We declared a public health emergency and issued the highest level of travel warning on other countries as the virus spread its horrible infection.

And taking early intense action, we have seen dramatically fewer cases of the virus in the United States than are now present in Europe.

The European Union failed to take the same precautions and restrict travel from China and other hotspots.  As a result, a large number of new clusters in the United States were seeded by travelers from Europe.

After consulting with our top government health professionals, I have decided to take several strong but necessary actions to protect the health and wellbeing of all Americans.

To keep new cases from entering our shores, we will be suspending all travel from Europe to the United States for the next 30 days.  The new rules will go into effect Friday at midnight.  These restrictions will be adjusted subject to conditions on the ground.

There will be exemptions for Americans who have undergone appropriate screenings, and these prohibitions will not only apply to the tremendous amount of trade and cargo, but various other things as we get approval.  Anything coming from Europe to the United States is what we are discussing.  These restrictions will also not apply to the United Kingdom.

At the same time, we are monitoring the situation in China and in South Korea.  And, as their situation improves, we will reevaluate the restrictions and warnings that are currently in place for a possible early opening.

Earlier this week, I met with the leaders of health insurance industry who have agreed to waive all copayments for coronavirus treatments, extend insurance coverage to these treatments, and to prevent surprise medical billing.

We are cutting massive amounts of red tape to make antiviral therapies available in record time.  These treatments will significantly reduce the impact and reach of the virus.

Additionally, last week, I signed into law an $8.3 billion funding bill to help CDC and other government agencies fight the virus and support vaccines, treatments, and distribution of medical supplies.  Testing and testing capabilities are expanding rapidly, day by day.  We are moving very quickly.

The vast majority of Americans: The risk is very, very low.  Young and healthy people can expect to recover fully and quickly if they should get the virus.  The highest risk is for elderly population with underlying health conditions.  The elderly population must be very, very careful.

In particular, we are strongly advising that nursing homes for the elderly suspend all medically unnecessary visits.  In general, older Americans should also avoid nonessential travel in crowded areas.

My administration is coordinating directly with communities with the largest outbreaks, and we have issued guidance on school closures, social distancing, and reducing large gatherings.

Smart action today will prevent the spread of the virus tomorrow.

Every community faces different risks and it is critical for you to follow the guidelines of your local officials who are working closely with our federal health experts — and they are the best.

For all Americans, it is essential that everyone take extra precautions and practice good hygiene.  Each of us has a role to play in defeating this virus.  Wash your hands, clean often-used surfaces, cover your face and mouth if you sneeze or cough, and most of all, if you are sick or not feeling well, stay home.

To ensure that working Americans impacted by the virus can stay home without fear of financial hardship, I will soon be taking emergency action, which is unprecedented, to provide financial relief.  This will be targeted for workers who are ill, quarantined, or caring for others due to coronavirus.

I will be asking Congress to take legislative action to extend this relief.

Because of the economic policies that we have put into place over the last three years, we have the greatest economy anywhere in the world, by far.

Our banks and financial institutions are fully capitalized and incredibly strong.  Our unemployment is at a historic low.  This vast economic prosperity gives us flexibility, reserves, and resources to handle any threat that comes our way.

This is not a financial crisis, this is just a temporary moment of time that we will overcome together as a nation and as a world.

However, to provide extra support for American workers, families, and businesses, tonight I am announcing the following additional actions:  I am instructing the Small Business Administration to exercise available authority to provide capital and liquidity to firms affected by the coronavirus.

Effective immediately, the SBA will begin providing economic loans in affected states and territories.  These low-interest loans will help small businesses overcome temporary economic disruptions caused by the virus.  To this end, I am asking Congress to increase funding for this program by an additional $50 billion.

Using emergency authority, I will be instructing the Treasury Department to defer tax payments, without interest or penalties, for certain individuals and businesses negatively impacted.  This action will provide more than $200 billion of additional liquidity to the economy.

Finally, I am calling on Congress to provide Americans with immediate payroll tax relief.  Hopefully they will consider this very strongly.

We are at a critical time in the fight against the virus.  We made a life-saving move with early action on China.  Now we must take the same action with Europe.  We will not delay.  I will never hesitate to take any necessary steps to protect the lives, health, and safety of the American people.  I will always put the wellbeing of America first.

If we are vigilant — and we can reduce the chance of infection, which we will — we will significantly impede the transmission of the virus.  The virus will not have a chance against us.

No nation is more prepared or more resilient than the United States.  We have the best economy, the most advanced healthcare, and the most talented doctors, scientists, and researchers anywhere in the world.

We are all in this together.  We must put politics aside, stop the partisanship, and unify together as one nation and one family.

As history has proven time and time again, Americans always rise to the challenge and overcome adversity.

Our future remains brighter than anyone can imagine.  Acting with compassion and love, we will heal the sick, care for those in need, help our fellow citizens, and emerge from this challenge stronger and more unified than ever before.

God bless you, and God bless America.  Thank you.
Thank you very much.  This is the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and we’ve had a very productive meeting.  It’s going to continue after you leave.  But we’ve had a very, very productive meeting.

Our military is very strong, more — more so than it’s been in many, many years.  I think I can say “in many, many decades.”  We’ve spent one and half trillion dollars rebuilding our military, and it shows it.  And we are discussing various things.

And, with that, thank you very much.  Thank you.

Hi, everybody.  Please, sit down.  Get things done.  Nobody gets it done like we do.

Now, I don’t know — are we letting the media in?  Is the media here?  I guess we have a limited media because of distancing.  And some people think I did that on purpose.  But we’ve been getting along with them reasonably well lately.

I just want to thank you all for coming back because you came back.  This is a Republican group, largely, if not in all cases.  You know, they look pretty Republican.  I’m not sure about Devin.  Let’s just — you’re a Republican, aren’t you?  (Laughter.)  No, this is a very, very Republican group.  And we appreciate you coming back.  Hi, Debbie.

And I just want to say a few words, and maybe we’ll say a couple of words in front of the media.  We just left the most beautiful ceremony, celebrating 75 years — the V- — 75 years.  And it was magnificent.  It was beautiful.  It was windy and beautiful.  And we have a great country.

And we’re rebuilding our country.  We had the greatest economy in the history of the world.  No country had anywhere near us.  And we had the best we’ve ever had, but we’ve had the best ever in the world.  China is a very good competitor, but we were doing much better than China.  And that’s before COVID, before this plague came in.  We were doing much, much better than anybody.  Best we’ve ever done.

And we had to close it down.  It was an artificial closing.  We had to just close it down.  Never happened — a thing like that never happened before.  We did the right thing.  It’s horrible what’s happened.  It should have been stopped.  It should have been stopped where it came from, which was China.  It could have been stopped easily and quickly.  And for some reason, they were unable to do it.  I think they tried, but I — it got away from them, I guess.  But it’s a shame.  And so many hundreds of thousands of people around the world have been killed — 184 countries.

But we’re going to build our country back, and we’re going to build it back fast.  This group of people, we all did it before and we’ll do it again.  We created something that has never been seen before.

And if you are somebody that likes history — and I think everyone in this room likes history; you wouldn’t be doing what you’re doing — you would see that and you would remember that this was the year that China was going to overtake us in the economy.  If you go back two months, you would say that they weren’t anywhere close; that we were going to be there many years of a very — if the right person sits in this seat, it’ll never happen.  If the wrong person sits in this seat, it’ll happen in a period of a few years or less.  It can happen almost immediately.

So we are in a position where we have to start all over again.  And we will start all over again, and we’ll build something that was even better than we had before, recognizing that so many people have died.  So many people have died.  That’s the one thing we can’t do anything about, unfortunately.  What I can say is if we did it the different way — if we went herd, if we just said, “Let’s wing it,” we would have been talking about numbers that would have been unsustainable and unacceptable.

You look on the screens, you look on television today, and you see body bags and you see mass graves.  And we may be talking about 95,000 people ultimately.  We may be talking about something more than that.  But if you take a low number, one and a half million — so you multiply whatever number we’re talking about times 15, it would not — it would not be acceptable.  It would not.  It’s not acceptable now.  One person isn’t acceptable, let alone perhaps 100,000.

So, we’re going to rebuild it.  We’re going to rebuild it back as fast as we can.  I think we’re going to have an incredible transition.  But transition leads to fourth quarter — third quarter, I call it, transition.  We’ll start to see it; it’s already happening.  People want to come back.  I think everybody in this room realizes we have to come back; otherwise, you have a broken country.  You’ll never be able to do it again; you’ll never be able to build this miracle.  It’s a miracle, what we did — what all of us did and what many people before us did.  You’ll never be able to build it again.  The people want to come back.

You see what’s going on at statehouses all over the country; they want to come back.  I think some people don’t want it really to come back for political reasons, which is sick.  But the people — the real people, the people that want this country to be great and great again, we can say they want to get back.  And we’re going to have embers.  We’re going to have fires.  We’re going to have things to put out, and we’ll put them out.  We learned a lot — you know, things that we had no idea two months ago.  We’ve learned a lot over the last couple of months.  And we’re going to do a job like — like nobody has seen before.

And I spoke with Angela Merkel today.  I spoke with Prime Minister Abe of Japan.  I spoke with many of the leaders over the last four or five days.  And so many of them, almost all of them — I would say all of them; not everybody would want to admit it — but they all view us as the world leader, and they’re following us.

You look at what we’ve done with ventilators.  We started, and we had no ventilators.  Nobody thought in terms of a ventilator.  It’s like — and I say it all the time — it’s like building a car.  And other countries don’t have ventilators.  And we became so successful in ventilators and building this very complex machine, very expensive machine — but very, very complex to have it right, to do it right.  Highly computerized.  Very technologically significant.

So we built, and we built, and we built.  And they took other factories — factories for totally other purposes — and now we have nine factories that are throwing out ventilators at numbers that nobody can believe.  It was really — there’s not been anything like that, since the Second World War, where we did the same thing with other types of product.

And we’re giving thousands and thousands away to other countries that are — people dying because they don’t have ventilators, and they’re not equipped to do what we did.  So we’re giving thousands and thousands of these ventilators away to many countries that have suffered greatly: Italy, France, Spain, so many countries.  And Nigeria called.  Tremendous problems in Nigeria.  Tremendous problems all over.  And so they’re very happy.

In addition to that, we’re building stockpiles for ourselves so if this disaster ever happens again, we have plenty.  Some of the governors — we’re working along great with almost all of the governors.  But some of them, they needed ventilators.  Now it’s testing.  And we have testing at a level that nobody has ever done before.  Every leader tells us the same thing.  In fact, they want to know what are we doing.  But you don’t hear that from the media.  You never hear that.

But what’s happened with testing is incredible.  So as of this morning, we’ve done eight and a half million tests.  And yesterday alone, in one day, we did 300,000 tests, and that’s an incredible tribute.  Now they have the test where it takes you five minutes.  That was a test that didn’t even exist.  Everything had to go to a lab.  It would be sent to the lab, so it takes a day, and then it takes another day, and by — it takes you three, four, five days if they do a good job.

Now you do a test — boom — and you have it in five minutes.  And nobody ever thought a thing like that was even possible.  That’s the Abbott Laboratories.  But now we have other competitive tests even with that.

So what we’ve done has been incredible.  We’re going to continue to do it.  We’re going into transition.  And I call it “transition to greatness.”  It’s going to be transition to greatness because we’re going to do something very fast, and we’re going to have a phenomenal year next year.  Third quarter, transition.  Fourth quarter is going to be good.  There’s tremendous pent-up demand, and next year we’re going to have a phenomenal year.

And with that, I think maybe I’d like to go around the room, and you could introduce yourself and say a few words.  And then after that, the media will leave and we’ll have some discussions among ourselves.  Okay?

Please, why don’t we start?  I think I know this gentleman, huh?  And, by the way, Kevin has done some job.  He should have had this job a long time before he had it.  But that’s okay.  We have — we have a great man, and he’s going to be hopefully a great Speaker of the House.  We got to get him there.  If we get them there — (applause) — and when I say “hopefully,” hopefully we’re going to win, because I have no doubt he’ll be a great Speaker the House.  We don’t have to hope about anything.  He’s done a fantastic job.

As long as I am President of the United States, Iran will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.

Good morning. I'm pleased to inform you: The American people should be extremely grateful and happy no Americans were harmed in last night’s attack by the Iranian regime. We suffered no casualties, all of our soldiers are safe, and only minimal damage was sustained at our military bases. 

Our great American forces are prepared for anything. Iran appears to be standing down, which is a good thing for all parties concerned and a very good thing for the world.

No American or Iraqi lives were lost because of the precautions taken, the dispersal of forces, and an early warning system that worked very well. I salute the incredible skill and courage of America’s men and women in uniform.

For far too long -- all the way back to 1979, to be exact -- nations have tolerated Iran’s destructive and destabilizing behavior in the Middle East and beyond. Those days are over. Iran has been the leading sponsor of terrorism, and their pursuit of nuclear weapons threatens the civilized world. We will never let that happen.

Last week, we took decisive action to stop a ruthless terrorist from threatening American lives. At my direction, the United States military eliminated the world’s top terrorist, Qasem Soleimani. As the head of the Quds Force, Soleimani was personally responsible for some of the absolutely worst atrocities.

He trained terrorist armies, including Hezbollah, launching terrorist strikes against civilian targets. He fueled bloody civil wars all across the region. He viciously wounded and murdered thousands of U.S. troops, including the planting of roadside bombs that maim and dismember their victims.

Soleimani directed the recent attacks on U.S. personnel in Iraq that badly wounded four service members and killed one American, and he orchestrated the violent assault on the U.S. embassy in Baghdad. In recent days, he was planning new attacks on American targets, but we stopped him.

Soleimani’s hands were drenched in both American and Iranian blood. He should have been terminated long ago. By removing Soleimani, we have sent a powerful message to terrorists: If you value your own life, you will not threaten the lives of our people.

As we continue to evaluate options in response to Iranian aggression, the United States will immediately impose additional punishing economic sanctions on the Iranian regime. These powerful sanctions will remain until Iran changes its behavior.

In recent months alone, Iran has seized ships in international waters, fired an unprovoked strike on Saudi Arabia, and shot down two U.S. drones.

Iran’s hostilities substantially increased after the foolish Iran nuclear deal was signed in 2013, and they were given $150 billion, not to mention $1.8 billion in cash. Instead of saying "thank you" to the United States, they chanted "death to America." In fact, they chanted "death to America" the day the agreement was signed.

Then, Iran went on a terror spree, funded by the money from the deal, and created hell in Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Afghanistan, and Iraq. The missiles fired last night at us and our allies were paid for with the funds made available by the last administration. The regime also greatly tightened the reins on their own country, even recently killing 1,500 people at the many protests that are taking place all throughout Iran.

The very defective JCPOA expires shortly anyway, and gives Iran a clear and quick path to nuclear breakout. Iran must abandon its nuclear ambitions and end its support for terrorism. The time has come for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia, and China to recognize this reality.

They must now break away from the remnants of the Iran deal -– or JCPOA –- and we must all work together toward making a deal with Iran that makes the world a safer and more peaceful place. We must also make a deal that allows Iran to thrive and prosper, and take advantage of its enormous untapped potential. Iran can be a great country.

Peace and stability cannot prevail in the Middle East as long as Iran continues to foment violence, unrest, hatred, and war. The civilized world must send a clear and unified message to the Iranian regime: Your campaign of terror, murder, mayhem will not be tolerated any longer. It will not be allowed to go forward.

Today, I am going to ask NATO to become much more involved in the Middle East process. Over the last three years, under my leadership, our economy is stronger than ever before and America has achieved energy independence. These historic accompliments [accomplishments] changed our strategic priorities. These are accomplishments that nobody thought were possible. And options in the Middle East became available. We are now the number-one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. We are independent, and we do not need Middle East oil.

The American military has been completely rebuilt under my administration, at a cost of $2.5 trillion. U.S. Armed Forces are stronger than ever before. Our missiles are big, powerful, accurate, lethal, and fast. Under construction are many hypersonic missiles.

The fact that we have this great military and equipment, however, does not mean we have to use it. We do not want to use it. American strength, both military and economic, is the best deterrent.

Three months ago, after destroying 100 percent of ISIS and its territorial caliphate, we killed the savage leader of ISIS, al-Baghdadi, who was responsible for so much death, including the mass beheadings of Christians, Muslims, and all who stood in his way. He was a monster. Al-Baghdadi was trying again to rebuild the ISIS caliphate, and failed.

Tens of thousands of ISIS fighters have been killed or captured during my administration. ISIS is a natural enemy of Iran. The destruction of ISIS is good for Iran, and we should work together on this and other shared priorities.

Finally, to the people and leaders of Iran: We want you to have a future and a great future -- one that you deserve, one of prosperity at home, and harmony with the nations of the world. The United States is ready to embrace peace with all who seek it.

I want to thank you, and God bless America. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.

